docs/data_collection.rst, before:

Data Collection
===============

The Snippets Service and the code that it embeds onto about:home collect data
about user interaction with snippets in order to help us determine the
effectiveness of certain types of snippets and measure whether a specific
snippet is successful. This document outlines the types of data we collect and
how it is handled.


Retrieving Snippets
-------------------

The :doc:`overview` document describes how Firefox retrieves snippets. The
actual URL that Firefox uses for fetching snippets can be found under the
`about:config`_ preference ``browser.aboutHomeSnippets.updateUrl`` and defaults
to::

   https://snippets.cdn.mozilla.net/%STARTPAGE_VERSION%/%NAME%/%VERSION%/%APPBUILDID%/%BUILD_TARGET%/%LOCALE%/%CHANNEL%/%OS_VERSION%/%DISTRIBUTION%/%DISTRIBUTION_VERSION%/

The names surrounded by ``%`` symbols are special values that Firefox replaces
with information about the user's browser.

``STARTPAGE_VERSION``
   A hard-coded number within Firefox specifying which version of about:home is
   retrieving snippets. We sometimes increase this when about:home changes in a
   way that may break certain snippets.

   Example: ``1``
``NAME``
   The name of the product being used.

   Example: ``Firefox``
``VERSION``
   The Firefox version number currently being used.

   Example: ``29.0.1``
``APPBUILDID``
   A string uniquely identifying the build of Firefox in use, usually in the
   form of the date the build occurred with a number appended.

   Example: ``2007083015``
``BUILD_TARGET``
   A string describing the platform and configuration used when building
   Firefox.

   Example: ``Darwin_x86-gcc3``
``LOCALE``
   The locale that the current Firefox was built for. We use this for showing
   snippets in different languages only to users who can read that language.

   Example: ``en-US``
``CHANNEL``
   The release channel for the current Firefox. This is typically one of
   ``release``, ``beta``, ``aurora``, or ``nightly``.

   Example: ``aurora``
``OS_VERSION``
   A string describing the operating system that this Firefox was built for.

   Example: ``Darwin%208.10.1``
``DISTRIBUTION``
   A string used to describe custom distributions of Firefox, such as when
   providing custom builds with partners. This is set to ``default`` for most
   instances of Firefox.

   Example: ``default``
``DISTRIBUTION_VERSION``
   Version of the customized distribution. This is also ``default`` for most
   instances of Firefox.

   Example: ``default``

.. _about:config: http://kb.mozillazine.org/About:config


Metrics for Firefox 64+
-----------------------

By default, the about:newtab and about:home pages in Firefox (the pages you see when you
open a new tab and when you start the browser), will send data back to Mozilla servers
about snippets. The intent is to collect data in order to improve the user's experience
while using Firefox. At any time, it is easy to **turn off** this data collection by
`opting out of Firefox telemetry <https://support.mozilla.org/kb/share-telemetry-data-mozilla-help-improve-firefox>`_.

Data is sent to our servers in the form of discreet HTTPS 'pings' or messages whenever
you see or interact with snippets on about:home or about:newtab. We try to minimize the
amount and frequency of pings by batching them together.

At Mozilla, `we take your privacy very seriously <https://www.mozilla.org/privacy/>`_.
The new tab page will never send any data that could personally identify you. We do not
transmit what you are browsing, searches you perform or any private settings.
Activity Stream does not set or send cookies, and uses
`Transport Layer Security <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security>`_ to
securely transmit data to Mozilla servers.

Data collected about snippets is retained on Mozilla secured servers for a period of
30 days before being rolled up into an anonymous aggregated format.  After this period
the raw data is deleted permanently. Mozilla **never shares data with any third party**.

The following is an overview of the different kinds of data we collect about snippets:

Message ID
   Unique name referring to the snippet that was being viewed when the request was sent.
Locale
   The locale of the current Firefox instance (the same locale value described in the
   snippet URL from the previous section).
Region
   The country code corresponding to the country the user is currently located
   in. This value may be empty in cases where we can't retrieve the user's country.
Action
   A string identifying the type of ping as either an impression or user event.
Event
   A string describing the type of event being measured, such as a snippet impression
   or a link click.
Source
   A string identifying that the ping as coming from the footer area of the new tab page.


Types of Metrics Gathered (for Firefox 64+)
-------------------------------------------

The following is a list of the types of events that we collect data for as described
in the previous section:

Impressions
~~~~~~~~~~~

An impression is whenever a user is shown a specific snippet.

Snippet Clicks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Whenever a link or button in a snippet is clicked, we trigger an event that
includes what was clicked on. This includes links and buttons that may trigger
an action besides opening up a new page, such as opening up browser menus,
submitting a form, or going to the next scene in the snippet.

Snippet Blocks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We trigger an event when a snippet is hidden from view by clicking the small "x"
button in the corner of all snippets, as well as the "Dismiss" button on certain
snippets with multiple-stage views.


Metrics for Firefox 63 and earlier
----------------------------------

Snippet code, which is executed on about:home, sends HTTP requests to a server
located at https://snippets-stats.moz.works and/or
https://snippets-stats.mozilla.org whenever an event occurs that we would like
to measure. These requests are sampled at a rate of 1%, meaning that only 1% of
the time an event occurs will a request be made.

Requests sent to snippets-stats.mozilla.org contain the following data (sent as
URL parameters in the query string) in addition to the normal data available
from an HTTP request:

Snippet Name
   Unique name referring to the snippet that was being viewed when the request
   was sent.
Locale
   The locale of the current Firefox instance (the same locale value described
   in the snippet URL from the previous section).
Country
   The country code corresponding to the country the user is currently located
   in. This is determined via the user's IP address and is cached locally within
   Firefox for 30 days. This value may be empty in cases where we can't retrieve
   the user's country.
Metric
   A string describing the type of event being measured, such as a snippet
   impression or a link click.
Campaign
   A string describing the snippet campaign this snippet is related to. We use
   this to help group metrics across multiple snippets related to a single
   campaign. This value may be empty.


Types of Metrics Gathered (for Firefox 63 and earlier)
------------------------------------------------------

The following is a list of the types of events that we collect data for as
described in the previous section:

Impressions
~~~~~~~~~~~

An impression is whenever a user is shown a specific snippet.

Snippet Clicks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Whenever a link in a snippet is clicked, we trigger an event that notes which
particular link was clicked. This includes links that may trigger an action
besides opening up a new page, such as links that trigger browser menus.

Video Plays, Pauses, Replays
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some snippets allow users to view videos. Some of these snippets trigger events
when the video is played or paused, when the end of the video is reached, or
when the user replays the video after it finishes.

Social Sharing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some snippets contain popup windows to share content on social networks, such as
Facebook or Twitter. Most of these snippets trigger an event when the user
launches the popup window.

Default Browser
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some snippets trigger an event that tracks whether Firefox is the default
browser on the user's system. These snippets also trigger an event when the user
makes Firefox their default browser by either clicking a link in the snippet or
by setting the default outside of the browser.

Browser UI Events
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some snippets trigger events when the user clicks specific buttons in the
Firefox user interface (as opposed to the in-page snippet). Examples of the
elements that can be tracked this way include:

* The "Email", "Copy Link", and "Start Conversation" buttons within the Firefox
  Hello dialog.


Google Analytics (for Firefox 63 and earlier)
---------------------------------------------

The `snippets statistics server
<https://github.com/mozmeao/snippets-stats-proxy>`_ may proxy data to Google
Analytics, with stripped IP information and with a randomly generated UID unique
to every request. Google Analytics is never loaded within about:home. Some
Mozilla websites use Google Analytics to collect data about user behavior so
that we can improve our sites.

Commit message:

[Issue #545] Add note that GA proxy has been shut down.

docs/data_collection.rst, after:

Data Collection
===============

The Snippets Service and the code that it embeds onto about:home collect data
about user interaction with snippets in order to help us determine the
effectiveness of certain types of snippets and measure whether a specific
snippet is successful. This document outlines the types of data we collect and
how it is handled.


Retrieving Snippets
-------------------

The :doc:`overview` document describes how Firefox retrieves snippets. The
actual URL that Firefox uses for fetching snippets can be found under the
`about:config`_ preference ``browser.aboutHomeSnippets.updateUrl`` and defaults
to::

   https://snippets.cdn.mozilla.net/%STARTPAGE_VERSION%/%NAME%/%VERSION%/%APPBUILDID%/%BUILD_TARGET%/%LOCALE%/%CHANNEL%/%OS_VERSION%/%DISTRIBUTION%/%DISTRIBUTION_VERSION%/

The names surrounded by ``%`` symbols are special values that Firefox replaces
with information about the user's browser.

``STARTPAGE_VERSION``
   A hard-coded number within Firefox specifying which version of about:home is
   retrieving snippets. We sometimes increase this when about:home changes in a
   way that may break certain snippets.

   Example: ``1``
``NAME``
   The name of the product being used.

   Example: ``Firefox``
``VERSION``
   The Firefox version number currently being used.

   Example: ``29.0.1``
``APPBUILDID``
   A string uniquely identifying the build of Firefox in use, usually in the
   form of the date the build occurred with a number appended.

   Example: ``2007083015``
``BUILD_TARGET``
   A string describing the platform and configuration used when building
   Firefox.

   Example: ``Darwin_x86-gcc3``
``LOCALE``
   The locale that the current Firefox was built for. We use this for showing
   snippets in different languages only to users who can read that language.

   Example: ``en-US``
``CHANNEL``
   The release channel for the current Firefox. This is typically one of
   ``release``, ``beta``, ``aurora``, or ``nightly``.

   Example: ``aurora``
``OS_VERSION``
   A string describing the operating system that this Firefox was built for.

   Example: ``Darwin%208.10.1``
``DISTRIBUTION``
   A string used to describe custom distributions of Firefox, such as when
   providing custom builds with partners. This is set to ``default`` for most
   instances of Firefox.

   Example: ``default``
``DISTRIBUTION_VERSION``
   Version of the customized distribution. This is also ``default`` for most
   instances of Firefox.

   Example: ``default``

.. _about:config: http://kb.mozillazine.org/About:config


Metrics for Firefox 64+
-----------------------

By default, the about:newtab and about:home pages in Firefox (the pages you see when you
open a new tab and when you start the browser), will send data back to Mozilla servers
about snippets. The intent is to collect data in order to improve the user's experience
while using Firefox. At any time, it is easy to **turn off** this data collection by
`opting out of Firefox telemetry <https://support.mozilla.org/kb/share-telemetry-data-mozilla-help-improve-firefox>`_.

Data is sent to our servers in the form of discreet HTTPS 'pings' or messages whenever
you see or interact with snippets on about:home or about:newtab. We try to minimize the
amount and frequency of pings by batching them together.

At Mozilla, `we take your privacy very seriously <https://www.mozilla.org/privacy/>`_.
The new tab page will never send any data that could personally identify you. We do not
transmit what you are browsing, searches you perform or any private settings.
Activity Stream does not set or send cookies, and uses
`Transport Layer Security <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security>`_ to
securely transmit data to Mozilla servers.

Data collected about snippets is retained on Mozilla secured servers for a period of
30 days before being rolled up into an anonymous aggregated format.  After this period
the raw data is deleted permanently. Mozilla **never shares data with any third party**.

The following is an overview of the different kinds of data we collect about snippets:

Message ID
   Unique name referring to the snippet that was being viewed when the request was sent.
Locale
   The locale of the current Firefox instance (the same locale value described in the
   snippet URL from the previous section).
Region
   The country code corresponding to the country the user is currently located
   in. This value may be empty in cases where we can't retrieve the user's country.
Action
   A string identifying the type of ping as either an impression or user event.
Event
   A string describing the type of event being measured, such as a snippet impression
   or a link click.
Source
   A string identifying that the ping as coming from the footer area of the new tab page.


Types of Metrics Gathered (for Firefox 64+)
-------------------------------------------

The following is a list of the types of events that we collect data for as described
in the previous section:

Impressions
~~~~~~~~~~~

An impression is whenever a user is shown a specific snippet.

Snippet Clicks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Whenever a link or button in a snippet is clicked, we trigger an event that
includes what was clicked on. This includes links and buttons that may trigger
an action besides opening up a new page, such as opening up browser menus,
submitting a form, or going to the next scene in the snippet.

Snippet Blocks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We trigger an event when a snippet is hidden from view by clicking the small "x"
button in the corner of all snippets, as well as the "Dismiss" button on certain
snippets with multiple-stage views.


Metrics for Firefox 63 and earlier
----------------------------------

Snippet code, which is executed on about:home, sends HTTP requests to a server
located at https://snippets-stats.moz.works and/or
https://snippets-stats.mozilla.org whenever an event occurs that we would like
to measure. These requests are sampled at a rate of 1%, meaning that only 1% of
the time an event occurs will a request be made.

Requests sent to snippets-stats.mozilla.org contain the following data (sent as
URL parameters in the query string) in addition to the normal data available
from an HTTP request:

Snippet Name
   Unique name referring to the snippet that was being viewed when the request
   was sent.
Locale
   The locale of the current Firefox instance (the same locale value described
   in the snippet URL from the previous section).
Country
   The country code corresponding to the country the user is currently located
   in. This is determined via the user's IP address and is cached locally within
   Firefox for 30 days. This value may be empty in cases where we can't retrieve
   the user's country.
Metric
   A string describing the type of event being measured, such as a snippet
   impression or a link click.
Campaign
   A string describing the snippet campaign this snippet is related to. We use
   this to help group metrics across multiple snippets related to a single
   campaign. This value may be empty.


Types of Metrics Gathered (for Firefox 63 and earlier)
------------------------------------------------------

The following is a list of the types of events that we collect data for as
described in the previous section:

Impressions
~~~~~~~~~~~

An impression is whenever a user is shown a specific snippet.

Snippet Clicks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Whenever a link in a snippet is clicked, we trigger an event that notes which
particular link was clicked. This includes links that may trigger an action
besides opening up a new page, such as links that trigger browser menus.

Video Plays, Pauses, Replays
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some snippets allow users to view videos. Some of these snippets trigger events
when the video is played or paused, when the end of the video is reached, or
when the user replays the video after it finishes.

Social Sharing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some snippets contain popup windows to share content on social networks, such as
Facebook or Twitter. Most of these snippets trigger an event when the user
launches the popup window.

Default Browser
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some snippets trigger an event that tracks whether Firefox is the default
browser on the user's system. These snippets also trigger an event when the user
makes Firefox their default browser by either clicking a link in the snippet or
by setting the default outside of the browser.

Browser UI Events
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some snippets trigger events when the user clicks specific buttons in the
Firefox user interface (as opposed to the in-page snippet). Examples of the
elements that can be tracked this way include:

* The "Email", "Copy Link", and "Start Conversation" buttons within the Firefox
  Hello dialog.


Google Analytics (for Firefox 63 and earlier)
---------------------------------------------

 .. note::

   On May 15th the data proxying to GA has been disabled for all versions of
   Firefox and the proxy server has been shut down.

The `snippets statistics server
<https://github.com/mozmeao/snippets-stats-proxy>`_ may proxy data to Google
Analytics, with stripped IP information and with a randomly generated UID unique
to every request. Google Analytics is never loaded within about:home. Some
Mozilla websites use Google Analytics to collect data about user behavior so
that we can improve our sites.
